---
id: access
title: Access
---

## Overview

When developing your app, you may have one or many services speaking to each other.
Some services make sense to keep private for *internal service* to service communication only, such as a database.
Other services may need to be exposed publicly such as a website.
Depending on the **Public OR Private** [Settings](anatomy-settings.md) you have set on your service, the **access tab** provide all available to communicate to your endpoints.

## Service Access Tab

Not all services can be accessed. [Jobs](../service-types/types-job.md) and [Background Workers](../service-types/types-backend-worker.md) do not have any accessible endpoints.

The following service types will have an **Access Tab** available

* Web App
* Backend API
* Postgres - From Catalog

The service access tab is located in the **Service View**.

1. Login to your KintoHub account
2. Create a new service or click on a Service in your [Environment](anatomy-environment.md)
3. Click on the tab near the top nammed *Access*

## How It Works?

In the Access Tab, you will have all the available options to access your service.

* **Internal hostnames** are generated from the `{service-name}`.
* **External hostnames** are generated by `{service-name}`-`{5-character-environment-hash}`.kinto.io
    * Example: `backendapi-5j39f.kinto.io`

If you wish to customize your external hostname, you may setup a [Custom Domain](anatomy-domains.md)

### Postgres

Postgres has additional access information that is genernated for usage.

* **Connection String Admin** - a postgres friendly connection URI for the root user.
* **Connection String User** - a postgres friendly connection URI for user specified when creating the service.
* **Root Password** - the password for the root user **postgres**.
* **Username** - the username specified when creating the service
* **Password** - the password for **username** specified when creating the service

:::note
If you programmatically change the postgres user or password data, the below settings will be **out of sync** and unuseable.
:::

